The Watchtower  under consideration today
was entitled “‘Your Deliverance
Is Getting Near’!”
And that’s the theme
from which our day’s text
and comments were taken.
And I’m sure you,
like me, “rejoice in the hope.”
You rejoice to think about the blessings
that will come right after
the great tribulation and Armageddon.
How encouraging to know that the world,
which to many seems out of control,
is soon nearing its end!
The grand finale is close.
How close?
Well, we all recall
the stirring concluding talk
at this year’s regional convention.
It summed it up in one word—imminent.
The day and the hour for the judgment
against this system of things
has been on Jehovah’s calendar for years.
It’s established.
And as Habakkuk’s prophecy indicates,
there is a “rushing toward” that day.
“It will not be late!”
Well, how does our day’s text today
from Revelation 6:15 help us
to understand details about
that fast-approaching great tribulation?
And then how can that advance knowledge
help us to be prepared for what is coming?
Well, I invite you
to open up your Bible with me
to read the context
found in Revelation chapter 6.
We want to read verses 15-17 together.
And keep in mind, as has been commented on,
that what we’re going to read
now in Scripture
takes place right after
the great tribulation begins
and right after
false religion has been destroyed.
The question is,
How will the majority of mankind respond
to what’s coming next, and why?
Let’s read it together.
Revelation 6:15-17:
“Then the kings
of the earth, the high officials,
“the military commanders,
the rich, the strong,
“every slave, and every free person
“hid in the caves
and among the rocks of the mountains.
“And they keep saying
to the mountains and to the rocks:
“‘Fall over us and hide us
from the face of the One seated on the throne
“‘and from the wrath of the Lamb,
“‘because the great day
of their wrath has come,
and who is able to stand?’”
Did you notice
where the majority will turn for refuge?
It’s amazing to think that even after
the world empire of false religion
has been completely destroyed,
the majority of people will continue to trust
in human organizations.
At that late hour,
after the great tribulation has started
and before Armageddon has begun,
the Bible does not indicate
that there is going to be
any mass conversion of people
running to Jehovah’s mountain.
At that moment,
political and commercial institutions
that will still be standing for a time
will appear to the majority to be rock solid,
like mountains and caves.
Verse 15 outlines the all-inclusive list
of those who will continue
to be completely deceived
by Satan the Devil.
Think of it:
All of them, including former adherents
of false religion or the nonreligious,
will go right back to their comfort zone,
looking for protection and salvation
from human organizations.
Will their comfort zone be a safe zone?
No.
Notice how the Revelation Climax  book
described this passage of Scripture.
I quote:
“Neither caves in the literal mountains
“nor symbolic mountainlike political
and commercial organizations
“will provide financial security
or any other kind of help.
Nothing will shelter them
from Jehovah’s wrath.”
Indeed, exciting
and sobering times
are rushing toward us.
Well, how does this advance information,
this inspired message from God,
help us prepare for that coming day?
The Watchtower  under consideration
encouraged us to think
about what lies ahead
and described this time period
as a time of judgment and testing.
Of course, when I thought
about that future time of testing,
I thought to myself,
‘Today is a time of test, isn’t it?’
Our brothers and sisters,
unlike at any other time in history,
are facing failing economies,
natural disasters,
health problems, untimely death,
war, persecution.
All of our brothers and sisters
are facing a time of test right now.
Even armed raids at Bethel
and at Kingdom Halls
are not uncommon today.
Yet, we have not yet entered
the great tribulation.
It’s very likely that life
will get even more difficult
in the near future.
So it’s good for us to think now:
‘What do I view as my comfort zone?
‘Is my trust and confidence,
even in little ways,
‘in material things
‘or in the assets I have
in this system of things?
‘Does my response
to difficulties and challenges today,
‘even before
the great tribulation breaks out,
‘reveal that Jehovah is my Rock
and not any human institution?’
You know, sadly,
some of our brothers and sisters
have been affected by the deception
that there is such a thing
as material security.
In 2013, an elder
(his experience
was published in the magazine)
said this
— I thought we could relate—
those of us who are in full-time service.
He said: “I’m normally very thrifty.
If I pour out a little too much shampoo,
I put some back in the bottle.”
Nevertheless, this elder, Alex,
got caught up in trading in the stock market,
thinking he could soon quit his job
and enter the pioneer service.
Well, he was well-motivated.
But Alex became ever more engrossed
in studying offerings and the market reports.
Using his savings and money
that he borrowed from brokers,
he bought stocks that the analysts
—the experts—
predicted would rise in value suddenly.
Instead, they dropped in value.
How did Alex respond?
He said: “I was determined
to get my money back.
I felt that if I just held on,
the stocks would come back up.”
Can you imagine how Alex
was feeling emotionally
for months, waiting
for the stocks to go up in value?
Alex found it difficult
to focus on spiritual matters.
He lost sleep.
The stocks, as you can imagine,
never rebounded.
As a result, Alex lost his savings
and he had to sell his house.
He admits, “I caused
great pain to my family.”
But notice the powerful conclusion
through a tough experience that he related.
He says, “I now know that anyone
“who puts his trust in Satan’s system
will be profoundly disappointed.”
It’s a good reminder for all of us, isn’t it?
Things in this system of things
—human organizations
(whatever source, political or commercial),
institutions of higher education—
cannot provide salvation
now nor in the future.
Notice how Proverbs 11:28
harmonizes with the point that Alex made.
Proverbs 11:28:
“The one trusting in his riches will fall,
but the righteous
will flourish like the foliage.”
What’s the point?
Resting even a little bit of confidence
or hope on our savings,
perhaps our investments,
or our ability to earn money
in this system of things
amounts to resting
our confidence in Satan the Devil.
It’s a comfort zone that is not safe.
No wonder then
that the faithful slave has urged us
—all of us, including
those of us in full-time service
who perhaps have made a life of sacrifice
to put Kingdom interests first—
to think seriously about the question,
“Am I ready to give up material things?”
Knowing where we run for comfort today
—even when there are little difficulties
in our life or challenging circumstances—
gives us a good indication
of where we’re going to run
in the future
when things get more difficult.
Of course, Jehovah does not want us
to face the future with fear.
He wants us to face the future
with confidence—and we can.
Our knowledge
of what the near future holds,
the details
of how the great tribulation will unfold,
and the instability of this dying system
of things convinces us
that there is no comfort zone
in this system of things.
There’s no safer comfort zone
than in trusting in Jehovah day after day.
So may this reminder serve to encourage us
to continue to work diligently
to store up “treasures in heaven”
—treasures that will never fail;
treasures that will continue
through the great tribulation,
after Armageddon,
and safely lead us into the real life.
It’s even as the apostle Paul
was inspired to write to Timothy.
May we continue to put our hope
“not on uncertain riches, but on God,”
who richly provides
for us all today and forever,
even during the great tribulation.
Yes, doing so will convince us
that our “deliverance is getting near,”
and we have nothing to fear.